ANGIE BOYCE
BORN IN SLAVERY, Mar. 14, 1861 on the
Breeding Plantation, Adair Co. Ky.


Mrs. Angie Boyce here makes mention of facts as outlined to her by her
mother, Mrs. Margaret King, deceased.

Mrs. Angie Boyce was born in slavery, Mar. 14, 1861, on the Breeding
Plantation, Adair County, Kentucky. Her parents were Henry and Margaret
King who belonged to James Breeding, a Methodist minister who was kind
to all his slaves and no remembrance of his having ever struck one of
them.

It is said that the slaves were in constant dread of the Rebel soldiers
and when they would hear of their coming they would hide the baby
"Angie" and cover her over with leaves.

The mother of Angie was married twice; the name of her first husband was
Stines and that of her second husband was Henry King. It was Henry King
who bought his and his wife's freedom. He sent his wife and baby Angie
to Indiana, but upon their arrival they were arrested and returned to
Kentucky. They were placed in the Louisville jail and lodged in the same
cell with large Brutal and drunken Irish woman. The jail was so infested
with bugs and fleas that the baby Angie cryed all night. The white woman
crazed with drink became enraged at the cries of the child and
threatened to "bash its brains out against the wall if it did not stop
crying". The mother, Mrs. King was forced to stay awake all night to
keep the white woman from carrying out her threat.

The next morning the Negro mother was tried in court and when she
produced her free papers she was asked why she did not show these papers
to the arresting officers. She replied that she was afraid that they
would steal them from her. She was exonerated from all charges and sent
back to Indiana with her baby.

Mrs. Angie Boyce now resides at 498 W. Madison St., Franklin, Ind.
