


Mrs. Callie Bracey's mother, Louise Terrell, was bought, when a child,
by Andy Ramblet, a farmer, near Jackson, Miss. She had to work very hard
in the fields from early morning until as late in the evening, as they
could possibly see.

No matter how hard she had worked all day after coming in from the
field, she would have to cook for the next day, packing the lunch
buckets for the field hands. It made no difference how tired she was,
when the horn was blown at 4 a.m., she had to go into the field for
another day of hard work.

The women had to split rails all day long, just like the men. Once she
got so cold, her feet seemed to be frozen; when they warmed a little,
they had swollen so, she could not wear her shoes. She had to wrap her
foot in burlap, so she would be able to go into the field the next day.

The Ramblets were known for their good butter. They always had more than
they could use. The master wanted the slaves to have some, but the
mistress wanted to sell it, she did not believe in giving good butter to
slaves and always let it get strong before she would let them have any.

No slaves from neighboring farms were allowed on the Ramblet farm, they
would get whipped off as Mr. Ramblet did not want anyone to put ideas in
his slave's heads.

On special occasions, the older slaves were allowed to go to the church
of their master, they had to sit in the back of the church, and take no
part in the service.

Louise was given two dresses a year; her old dress from last year, she
wore as an underskirt. She never had a hat, always wore a rag tied over
her head.


Interviewer's Comment

Mrs. Bracey is a widow and has a grandchild living with her. She feels
she is doing very well, her parents had so little, and she does own her
own home.

Submitted December 10, 1937
Indianapolis, Indiana
