_DE MASTERS GOOD, BUT OVERSEERS MEAN_

Aunt Amy paused as she worked among the small plants in her garden,
removing a weed here and there. She pushed back the sunbonnet that
shaded her eyes and began:

"I was bawn on Governor Reuben Chapman’s place five miles north of
Livingston on May 14, 1843. My name is Amy Chapman. My mother was Clary
Chapman an’ my pappy was Bob Chapman. Dey both come from Virginny; my
mammy from Petersburg an’ my pappy f’um Richmond. Dey was driv’ down to
Alabamy lak cattle an’ Marse Reuben bought ’em. He had a lot of slaves
caze he had a heap of plantations, but him an’ his wife stay most of de
time in Huntsville an’ dey had a heap of white oberseers. I had a plenty
of chilluns but not as many as my mammy.

"Who was my husban’? Law chile, I ain’t never had no special husban’. I
even forgits who was de pappy of some of dese chilluns of mine.

"Us had a mean oberseer, an’ since Marse Reuben warn’t never at home,
dem oberseers useter treat us somp’n awful. One day Marse Reuben come
home an’ when he foun’ out dat de oberseer was mean to de slaves he
commence to give him a lecture, but when Miss Ferlicia tuk a han’ in de
business, she didn’t stop at no lecture, she tol’ dat oberseer dis: ’I
hear you take my women an’ turn dere clothes ober dere haids an’ whup
'em. Any man dat’s got a family an’ would do sich a thing oughter be
sham’ of hisself, an’ iffen Gov. Chapman can’t make you leave, I kin, so
you see dat road dere? Well, make tracks den.’ An’ Mistis, he lef’ raght
den. He didn’t wait for no coaxin’. He was de meanes’ oberseer us ever
had. He tuk my ol’est brother an’ had him stretched out jus’ lak you see
Christ on de cross; had him chained, an’ I sot down on de groun’ by him
an’ cried all night lack Mary an’ dem done. Dat oberseer was de fus’ one
dat ever putt me in de fiel’, an’ he whupped me wid de cat er nine tails
when I was stark naked.

"Den dere was anudder mean man named [...] who was always a-beatin’
nigger women caze dey wouldn’t mind him.

"Us warn’t learned to read an’ write, but Mr. Jerry Brown’s slaves were.
He owned a big plantation. Us didn’t go to no nigger church, caze dere
warn’t none. I was babtized in Jones Creek, an’ Dr. Edmon’s a white
preacher, j’ined me to de Jones Creek Babtist Church long fo’ de war,
an’ de song I lacked bes’ was a white folks song. Twarn’t no nigger
song. It was lack dey sing it now, ’cep’ mo’ lovely, Miss, mo’ lovely.

    Dark was de night
    Col’ was de groun’
    On which my Savior lay
    Blood in draps of sweat run down
    In agony he pray.

    Lawd, move did bitter cup
    If sich dy sacred will
    If not content I’ll drink it up
    Whose pleasure I’ll fullfil.

"An’ anudder one us niggers useter sing was might pretty:

    In evil long I tuk de light
    An’ led by shame an’ fear
    When a new object stopped my flight
    An’ stopped my wild career.

    I saw him hangin’ on a tree
    In agony an’ blood
    He fixed his languid eyes on me
    As near his cross I stood.

    Sho’ never till my latter breath
    Kin I forgit dat look
    He seemed to change me wid his death
    Yit not a word he spoke.

    My conscience felt an’ owned de quilt
    An’ plunged me in despair
    I saw my sins his blood had spilt
    An’ helped to nail him dere.

"Yassum, I kin tell you things about slavery times dat would make yo’
blood bile, but dey’s too turrible. I jus’ tries to forgit.

[Illustration: _Amy Chapman, Livingston, Alabama_]

"I could tell you ’bout bein’ run myself wid dem nigger dogs, but I
ain’t gwineter do it. I will tell you dough ’bout a mean man who whupped
a cullid woman near ’bout to death. She got so mad at him dat she tuk
his baby chile what was playin’ roun’ de yard and grab him up an’
th’owed it in a pot of lye dat she was usin’ to wash wid. His wife come
a-hollin’ an’ run her arms down in de boilin’ lye to git de chile out,
an’ she near ’bout burnt her arms off, but it didn’t do no good ’caze
when she jerked de chile out he was daid.

"One day I seed ole Unker Tip Toe all bent over a-comin’ down de road
an’ I ax him whut ail him an’ he say: ’I’s been in de stocks an’ been
beat till de blood come. Den ole Massa ’ninted my flesh wid red papper
an’ turpentine an’ I’s been most dead but I is somewhat better now.’
Unker Tiptoe belonged to de meanes’ ol’ marster around here.

"But, honey, I ain’t never tol’ nobody all dis an’ ain’t gwine tell you
no mo’. Ride me home now, caze I’s cripple; a cow was de cause of it.
She drug me roun’ dat new orchard whut I planted las’ fall. She done run
away wid me. Mistis I wished you would do me a favor an’ write my son in
Texas an’ tell him dat I say, iffen he ’specks me to make him anymo’ of
dem star quilts, he better come on here an’ kiver my house. De roof sho’
does leak bad."

