


"In dem ole days we lived down near Hickman, Kentucky. We belonged to
Masta’ Joe Mott and Missus Mary Mott. Den dey was young Massa’ James
Andrew an’ young Massa’ Joe, an’ dey wuz Missie Ophelia an’ Missie Mary
Rebecca.

"Dey had a nice big house, white wid big porches an’ big locust trees
aroun’ in de yard. Dey only had us one famly o’ slaves but dey wuz a
good many er us.

"My Daddy wuz Henry Litener and my mammy wuz Rosanna Litener. My daddy
belonged to Woodson Morris. He wuz a cousin of Massa Joe Mott an’ lived
a few miles away. He wuz allus allowed to visit us over Saturday night
an’ Sunday. Mammy done de cookin’ at de big house an’ Massa Joe allus
said dey warn’t nobody cud cook like Rose—dat’s what he call her.

"We lived in a three-room log house an’ we allus had plenty good eatin’.
Hams, puddi near all year round chickens, en’ sweet’taters an’ possums
too.

"Cain’t tell ’bout no good times in dem days ’cause dey warn’t none. We
didden have no church but Ole Missus Mary usta carry mammy along to her
church—ridin behind on her hoss. I guess dey wuz mos’ly right good to us
all. The chillern wouldn’ never let nobody whup me ’cause we all played
togedder. But Ole Massa usta whup mammy when he’d git mad.

"When de war came Ole Massa didden go but he war a reg’lar ole seesesh!
Young James Andrew went off to war an’ ole Missus usta grieve for him.
We ain’t never seed no fightin’ round our place but we could hear de big
guns over at Columbus. When de sojers was round de neighborhood dey’d
allus have me playing’ round de front gate so I cud tell em when dey’s
comin’ up de road. Den dey goes an’ hides ’fore de sojers gits dar. Dey
all skeer’d o’ de sojers. I’s skeerd too but dey say sojers won’t bother
little black gal. De sojers jes’ came in en’ ransack de house—dey finds
sumthin to eat an’ dey looks for money. Dey wants money! but dey don’
find none. Den dey wants ter know whar’s my folks—but I tells ’em I
don’t know. Dey jes left en’ didden say whar dey wuz goin’.

"When de war wuz over Ole Massa Joe came in an’ he say: ’Rose, you all
ain’t slaves no mo’—You is all free as I is.’ Den you should a heard my
mammy shout! You never heerd sich shoutin’ in all yo’ bahn days. An’ Ole
Missus she joined in de shoutin’ too. She war glad ’cause now James
Andrew would be comin’ home.

"Old Missus Delia Reed, dat wuz Old Massa’s sister, she wuz good ’bout
lookin atter us wen we’s ailin’ but iffen we’s sick dey’d git de doctor.
Dey wuz jes as dutiful to us as to dere white folks.

"Dey usta talk—bout hoodoos an castin’ spells en’ sech like—but I guess
dey warn’t much to it er dey’d a cast spells on some a’ de mean Massa’s
when dey beat um up. Still iffen dey had, mebby dey’d a beat um up
worser or mebby killed em."
