


"No, mam, I couldn' exactly tell you how old I is cause my father, he
been dead over 20 years en when us had a burnin out dere to Georgetown,
Pa's Bible was destroyed den. Cose I don' remember myself, say, slavery
time, but I can tell dat what I is hear de olden people talk bout been
gwine on in dat day en time. No, mam, I want to suggest to you de best I
can cause I might have to go back up yonder en tell it to be justified
some of dese days."

"Oh, I been know your father en your grandfather en all of dem. Bless
mercy, child, I don' want to tell you nothin, but what to please you.
Lord, I glad to see your face. It look so lovin en pleasin, just so as I
is always know you. Look like dere not a wave of trouble is ever roll
'cross your peaceful bosom."

"Now, like I speak to you, I don' know rightly bout my age, but I can
tell you when dat shake come here, I been a missie girl. Oh, my Lord, I
been just as proud en crazy in dem days. Wasn' thinkin nothin bout dat
dese dark days was headin here. Yes, mam, I is always been afflicted
ever since I been twelve years old, so dey tell me. You see, dat muscle
right back dere in my foot, it grow crooked just like a hook. De doctor,
he say dat if dey had kept me movin bout, it wouldn' been grow dat way.
But my poor old mammy, she die while us was livin down dere to old man
Foster Brown's plantation en dere won' no other hand gwine trouble dey
way no time to lift me up. Oh, my mammy, she been name Katie Brown cause
my parents, dey belonged to de old man Foster Brown in dey slavery day.
Dat how-come I been raise up a country child dere on Mr. Brown's
plantation. Another thing, like as you might be a noticin, I ain' never
been married neither. No, mam, I ain' never been married cause I is
always been use a stick in walkin in my early days en never didn' nobody
want me. Yes, mam, I know I every bit of 70 or gwine on 80 years old to
my mind en I think it a blessin de Lord preserve me dis long to de
world. Cose I often wonders why de good Massa keep me here en take dem
what able to work for demselves."

"Yes, honey, wid God harness on me, I come here to dis town a grown
woman to live en I been livin right here by myself in dis same house
near bout 20 years. Cose dere a little 12-year-old country girl dat
stays here wid me while de school be gwine on so as to get some learnin.
Yes'um, I pays $2.00 every month for dis here room en it ain' worth
nothin to speak bout. Pap Scott's daughter stay in dat other room over
dere. No, mam, dere ain' but just dese two rooms to de house. You, see,
my buildin does leak en I has a big time some of dese days. See here,
child, I has dis piece of oilcloth cross my bed en when it rains on a
night, I sleeps in dat chair over dere en lets it drop on de oilcloth.
Den when it comes a storm, my Lord, dere such a racket! I be settin here
lookin for dat top up dere to be tumblin down on me de next crack en
seems like it does give me such a misery in my head. Yes, mam, dat
misery does strike me every time I hear tell bout dere a darkness in de
cloud."

"Well, drawed up as I is, I ain' able to get no work worth much to speak
bout dese days. It dis way, child, don' nobody like to see no old ugly
crooked up creature like me round bout whe' dey be no time. Cose I sets
here en does a washin now en den whe' de people gets push up, but don'
get no regular work. Now, dem people over dere, I does dey washin
mostly, but dey don' never be noways particular en stylish like en I
don' have nothin much to worry wid. See, de lady, she don' go bout
nowhe' much."

"Oh, Lord, dere my stove right dere, I say. Yes, mam, I cooks right here
in de fireplace all de time. I got dat pot on dere wid some turnips a
boilin now en it gettin on bout time I be mixin up dat bread, too, fore
dat child be comin home from school hungry as a louse. I say, I got dis
here old black iron spider en dis here iron griddle, too, what I does my
bakin on cause you see, I come from way back yonder. Dem what de olden
people used to cook on fore stoves ever been come here. Yes, mam, de
spider got three legs dat it sets on en de griddle, dat what I makes
dese little thin kind of hoecake on. See, when I wants to bake in de
spider, I heaps my coals up in a pile dat way so as to set de spider on
dem en pours de batter in de spider en puts de lid on. Den I rakes me up
another batch of coals en covers de lid over wid dem. Do dat to make it
get done on de top. Yes, mam, dat de kind of a spider dat de people
used to cook dey cake in. Now, when I has a mind to cook some turnips or
some collards, I makes dis here boil bread. Honey, dat somethin to talk
bout eatin wid dem turnips. Ain' no trouble to mind it neither. First, I
just washes my hands right clean like en takes en mixes up my meal en
water together wid my hand till I gets a right stiff dough. Den I
pinches off a piece de dough bout big as a goose egg en flattens it out
wid my hand en drops it in de pot wid de greens. Calls dat boil
dumplings. I think bout I got a mind dat I gwine cook some of dem in dat
turnip pot directly, too. No, mam, I don' never eat dinner till it come
bout time for de little girl to be expectin to be from school. Oh, my
blessed, dem olden people sho know how to cook in dem days. Never didn'
hear speak bout de cookin upsettin de people in dat day en time like it
sets de people in a misery dese days. Dat how-come, I say, I ain' noways
ailin in de inside cause it be dat I lives de olden way. Yes, child, de
slavery people sho had de hand to cook. Dere ain' never been nothin cook
nowhe' dat could satisfy a cravin like dat ash cake dat de people used
to cook way back dere, I say. Oh, dey would mix up a batter just like
dey was gwine make a hoecake en wrap it all up in oak leaves or a piece
of dis here heavy brown paper en lay it in de hot ashes. Den dey would
rake some more hot ashes all over de top of it. Yes'um, de dampness out
de hoecake would keep de wrappin wet en when it would get done, de paper
would peel right off it. I tell you, honey, I mighty glad I been come
along in dat day en time. Mighty thankful I been a child of de olden
ways."

"Yes, child, de people what been raise de slavery way, dey been have a
heap of curious notions en some of dem was good, I say. Yes, mam, dere
one sign dat I remembers bout en I follows dat up right sharp dese days.
I sho watches dat closely. Say, somebody have a mouthful of rations en
sneeze, it a sign of death. I finds dat to be very true to speak bout.
Yes'um, I notices dat a good one, Miss Davis."

"Den I got another one comin. Always say, when you see bout a dozen
buzzards moesin (flying) round a house en den dey break off en make a
straight shoot for a graveyard, dere somebody out dat house gwine be
bury dere soon. Cose dat what I hear talk bout, but I ain' watched dat
so much."

"No, mam, dat ain' half de signs what de olden people used to have cause
dat all what dey know to tell dem what to do en what was gwine happen.
Dem what was wise, dey followed dem signs closely, too. Yes, you come
back another time, child, en I'll see can I scratch up a heap of dem
other sign to tell you. When I gets to talkin to you bout old times, my
mind, it just gets to wanderin over dem old fields whe' I run bout as a
little small child en I can' half remember nothin to speak to you bout."

  Source: Lizzie Davis, colored, Marion, S. C.--Age 70 to 80.
          Personal interview by Annie Ruth Davis, Dec., 1937.
