"I don't know much to tell about my folks. My parents died when I was
young. Mother died when I was twelve and father when I was seven years
old. Great-grandma was an Indian squaw. My father's pa was his young
master. His old master was named George Dickey. The young master was
John Dickey. I reckon to start with my mother had a husband. She had
twelve children but the last seven was by my pa. He was lighter than I
am and paler. This red is Indian in me. I know how he looked and how she
looked too. The young master never married. He had some brothers. My
father lived with us and his pa was there too some. I don't know what
become of John Dickey but my pa was buried at Mt. Tursey Cemetery. It
was a sorter mixed burying grown (ground) but at a white church. Mother
come here and was buried at Cat Island in a colored church cemetery.

"I farmed in Mississippi, then I come to Miller Lumber Company and I
worked with them forty-two years. I worked at Marked Tree, then they
sent me here (Marianna).

"I voted in Caruthersville, Missouri last I voted. It don't do much good
to vote. I am too old to vote. I never voted in Arkansas. I voted some
in Mississippi but not regular.

"Times is hard. So many white women do their own cooking and washing
till it don't leave no work fer the colored folks. The lumber work is
gone fer good.

"The present generation is going back'ards. For awhile it looked like
they was rising--I'm speaking morally. They going back down in a hurry.
Drinking and doing all kinds of devilment. The race is going back'ard
now. Seems like everybody could see that when whiskey come back in.

"I got high blood pressure. I do a little work. I watch on Sunday at the
mills. I don't get no help from the Gover'ment."


