Mornin' honey. I thought you wuz comin' back tuh see me ergin las'
summer an' I looked fuh you the longes' time. I'se plum proud tuh see
you ergin. Dis other lady ain't de one that wuz wid you las' summer is
she?

Now jes lis'en tuh that will yuh, she wants Aunt Sarah tuh tell huh some
more 'bout slave'y times. John Bufford wuz mah marster's name. I wuz
bo'n in Alabama an' brought to Louisiana by my marster's fambly. Aftuh
de wah he freed us an' some of 'em mixed up in politics an' the white
folks from the North fooled 'em into makin speeches fuh 'em, but dey
soon learnt bettuh.

I ain't been well lately. The doctuh said I had slamatory rheumatis. I'm
ol' now end don' have nobody tuh do nothin fuh me. My mistress wuz mammy
in de ol' days.

Aftuh I got up fum mah rheumatism I went down tuh that church you sees,
I give de lan' fuh hit, me and Tom did and I jes felt good and wanted
tuh praise the Lord. I wuz so glad the sperit come once more, I got
happy and I got up and went down tuh de fron' and said; "I want to shake
hand wid ever' body in dis house. I wanna stroke yo hand." An' I stood
down there at the front so happy an' duh yuh know one little chile and
two women come down an' shook hands wid me, I jes didn't know whut tuh
think. Yoh know when I wuz young and a body got happy evuh body did an'
dey made a noise but not so now. An' tuh think dey couldn't turn
praises.

You say yo' wants tuh talk tuh Tom? Well he's out dar in de back yard
but he aint well and I specks he won't talk tuh but if you mus' come on.
Tom here is a lady wants tuh talk tuh you. I'll go back an talk tuh de
lady whuts waitin' in de car.


(The above written just as Sarah Douglas expressed it).

(Taken down word for word.)

(August 11, 1937.)



