"One thing I remembers hearin' my folks talk bout. They had a leader
hoeing cotton. His name was John. He was a fast hand. He hoe one row a
piece and reach over and hoe the other. He'd get way ahead of the other
hands. If they didn't keep up they get a whoopin. So he rest till they
ketch up. Once he hoed up to a tree--big shade tree out in the field. He
stuck his hoe in the root of the tree and a moccasin bit him bout that
time. It bit him right on the toe. They took him up to the house but he
died.

"I was born close to Des Arc and Hickory Plains. My parents was Henry
and Fannie Ford. Her master was named Powell and his master was named
Frank Ford. I was the oldest 'mong six boys and four girls. My folks
didn't git nuthing. I don't think they expected freedom much. They heard
they goiner be free and knowed they was fightin'. They didn't know what
freedom be like. When they was set free at DeValls Bluff they signed up.
They went back and went on farmin' lack nothin' ever happened. That what
I heard em say when I was small boy.

"I voted--Republican ticket, I believe. If I vote that what I vote. I
reckon the women ought to vote. I still vote that is if I sees fit to
vote.

"My father run from the soldiers. He didn't go to the war as I ever
knowd of.

"I been farmin' all my life till I got so nocount I ain't able to do
nothin' no more. I worked on the section bout six months. I worked some
off an on at the veneer mill till it shut down. I does a little janitor
work now and the Welfare help me a little.

"The present conditions good if a fellow able to pick cotton but if they
run through with it times be hard in the heart of the winter cause they
cain't git no credit. Times is hard for old folks."


