


I asked her if she believed anyone could harm her and she said not not
unless they could get her to eat or drink something. Then they might.
She said a Gypsy was feeling her and slipped a dollar and a quarter tied
up in her handkerchief from her and she never did know when or how she
got it. Said she never believed their tales or had her fortune told. She
didn't believe anyone could put anything under the door and because you
walked over it you would get a "spell". She said some people did. She
didn't know what they put under the doors. She never was conjured that
she knew of and she doesn't believe in it. Said she had to work too hard
to tell tales to her children but she used to sing. She can't remember
the songs she sang. She can't read or write.

The old woman is blind and gray, wears a cap. Her Mistress was Mrs. Mary
and her Master was Mr. Hardy Sellers in Chesterfield County, South
Carolina. Her husband died and left her with six children. Her brother
came with a lot of other fellows to Arkansas. "Everybody was coming
either here or to Texas". Mr. David Gates at DeValls Bluff sent her a
ticket to come to his farm. Her brother was working for Mr. Gates
Wattensaw plantation and that is where she has been till a few years ago
she moved to Hazen and lives with her son and his wife. She remembered
when the Civil War soldiers took all their food, mules and hitched Mrs.
Sellers driving horses to the surry and drove off. Her Mistress cried
and cried. She said she had a hard time after she left Mr. and Mrs.
Sellers, they was sure good to them and always had more than she had
ever had since. She wanted to go back to South Carolina to see the ones
she left but never did have the money. Said they lived on Mr. Dick
Small's place and he was so good to her and her children but he is dead
too now.

 She is blind. She gets $8.00 pension, she is proud to tell.
