[HW: Superstitions and Charms]
  



When she was a child she remembered white children and colored playing
"No Boogerman Tonight." One would catch the others as they ran from
behind big trees. Then whoever he caught would be the boogerman, till he
caught somebody else.

       *       *       *       *       *

They made ash cakes and put black walnuts in it. It was just as good as
crackling bread which was made from rendering lard. They made molasses
candy and pulled it at the Master's house during Christmas.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mothers combed their children's hair Sunday and wrapped it, sometimes
had dyed string.

The Master had a mule named Beck. Only one on the farm could tend old
Beck. He would buck and kick. Sometimes he would run and he would lope
if you "hitched" him to a buggy. When freedom came the master studied
who would tend old Beck so he gave him to Jack. Jack felt so free as he
rode from the farm out into the big world all his own and no place to
go. In about a year Jack sent a letter back by somebody to the Master.
"I want you to send me $2.00 of your own money. My wife has gone raving
destracted. My mule is dead. I am pestered and bothered. I bound you."

       *       *       *       *       *

Will said there used to be witches when somebody got mad with somebody
they would bewitch the cows. You couldn't get the butter to come no
matter how long you churned and sometimes a bewitched cow would come up
and give bloody milk. If you keep plenty salt around in the troughs the
witches wouldn't come about so much.

       *       *       *       *       *

If you carry a rabbit foot in your pocket it will bring you good luck.
If you find anything pointed with point toward you, that is a sign of
good luck. If you put your shirt or dress on wrong side out, don't
change it. Thats good luck for the day.

       *       *       *       *       *

Don't start to sew a piece of goods on Friday unless you are sure you
can get it done before night for that is bad luck.

       *       *       *       *       *

  