


Once upon a time during the Civil War my grandmother was alone with just
one old faithful servant. The Union troops had just about taken
everything she had, except three prize saddle horses and one coal black
mare which she rode all the time. She was very fond of the mare and
valued it very much. One night my grandmother heard a noise, and called
old Joe to go to the barn and see what was the matter. As he was nearing
the barn someone yelled "Halt"; and Joe being a black man and a servant,
stopped just where he was. My grandmother, who had also heard the
command, paid no attention whatsoever; she went straight through the
dozen or more Union soldiers who were stealing her stock to the one who
appeared to be the leader. He was holding her mare; she jerked the
briddle from his hand, led her mare back to the kitchen door, where she
held her the remainder of the night.


A Story:

When my mother was a girl she was staying with some kinfolks for one
month. These people owned several slaves and among them was one old
man-servant who was very old and had served out his usefulness. It was
war time and food was scarce even for the white folks. The younger and
stronger slaves got most of the food, and old Tom was always hungry. My
mother finding this out, and feeling sorry for him would slip him bread
and other food through a hole in the kitchen floor. A short time after
this, my mother married and moved to a home of her own. Old Tom never
forgot her kindness; and finally persuaded his master to give him to my
mother, who kept him until his death.
