


The following story was given by a colored woman, Esther Hudespeth, who
was once sold as a slave. It was told to her by her slave mother in
1840.

"A long time ago there lived a rabbit and a coon. They lived so close
together. One morning Mr. Coon came by after Mr. Rabbit, and wanted him
to go over to see some girls with him. So Mr. Rabbit agreed and went
with Mr. Coon. Mr. Coon and the girls had some fun making fun of Mr.
Rabbit's short tail. Mr. Rabbit was very glad when the time came for him
to go home, because he was tired of being talked about. Mr. Coon had to
go get a drink of water, and Mr. Rabbit told the girls that Mr. Coon was
his riding horse and he would ride him when he came back. By the time he
got thru telling the girls, Mr. Coon called to Mr. Rabbit that he was
ready to go. Mr. Coon had enjoyed himself so much, while Mr. Rabbit had
not.

The next day Mr. Coon came by for Mr. Rabbit to go with him to see the
girls. Mr. Rabbit played sick. I am too sick to walk over there, he
said. Mr. Coon said, I will carry you on my back if you want to ride.
No, said Mr. Rabbit, I cant ride on your back. I will fall off.

Mr. Rabbit said, If you will let me put this saddle and bridle on you, I
will go. So Mr. Coon agreed to let Mr. Rabbit put the saddle and bridle
on Mr. Coon. So they went along thru the woods. When they got in sight
of the House, Mr. Coon told Mr. Rabbit to get off--that he did not want
the girls to see him on his back. Mr. Rabbit pulled out a whip and began
to whip Mr. Coon, hollowing so the girls would see him, and made Mr.
Coon go up to the hitching rack. There Mr. Rabbit hitched Mr. Coon and
went in the house and enjoyed himself with the girls, while Mr. Coon
pawed the ground. Mr. Rabbit bade the girls goodbye, and never did Mr.
Coon come after Mr. Rabbit to go to see the girls with him.
