
EX-SLAVE STORY

An interview with Ben Johnson 85 of Hecktown, Durham, Durham County,
May 20, 1937.


Uncle Ben, who is nearly blind and who walks with a stick, was assisted
to the porch by his wife who sat down near him in a protecting
attitude. He is much less striking than his wife who is small and
dainty with perfect features and snow white hair worn in two long
braids down her back. She wore enormous heart shaped earrings,
apparently of heavy gold; while Uncle Ben talked she occasionally
prompted him in a soft voice.

"I wuz borned in Orange County and I belonged ter Mr. Gilbert Gregg
near Hillsboro. I doan know nothin' 'bout my mammy an' daddy, but I had
a brother Jim who wuz sold ter dress young missus fer her weddin'. De
tree am still standin' whar I set under an' watch 'em sell Jim. I set
dar an' I cry an' cry, 'specially when dey puts de chains on him an'
carries him off, an' I ain't neber felt so lonesome in my whole life. I
ain't neber hyar from Jim since an' I wonder now sometimes if'en he's
still livin'.

"I knows dat de marster wuz good ter us an' he fed an' clothed us good.
We had our own gyarden an' we wuz gittin' long all right.

"I seed a whole heap of Yankees when dey comed ter Hillsboro an' most
of 'em ain't got no respeck fer God, man, nor de debil. I can't 'member
so much 'bout 'em do' cause we lives in town an' we has a gyard.

"De most dat I can tell yo' 'bout am de Ku Klux. I neber will fergit
when dey hung Cy Guy. Dey hung him fer a scandelous insult ter a white
'oman an' dey comed atter him a hundert strong.

"Dey tries him dar in de woods, an' dey scratches Cy's arm ter git some
blood, an' wid dat blood dey writes dat he shall hang 'tween de heavens
an' de yearth till he am daid, daid, daid, an' dat any nigger what
takes down de body shall be hunged too.

"Well sar, de nex' mornin' dar he hung, right ober de road an' de
sentence hangin' ober his haid. Nobody'ud bother wid dat body fer four
days an' dar hit hung, swingin' in de wind, but de fou'th day de
sheriff comes an' takes hit down.

"Dar wuz Ed an' Cindy, who 'fore de war belonged ter Mr. Lynch an'
atter de war he told 'em ter move. He gives 'em a month an' dey ain't
gone, so de Ku Kluxes gits 'em.

"Hit wuz on a cold night when dey comed an' drugged de niggers out'n
bed. Dey carried 'em down in de woods an' whup dem, den dey throws 'em
in de pond, dere bodies breakin' de ice. Ed come out an' come ter our
house, but Cindy ain't been seed since.

"Sam Allen in Caswell County wuz tol' ter move an' atter a month de
hundret Ku Klux come a-totin' his casket an' dey tells him dat his time
has come an' if'en he want ter tell his wife good bye an' say his
prayers hurry up.

"Dey set de coffin on two cheers an' Sam kisses his ole oman who am
a-cryin', den he kneels down side of his bed wid his haid on de piller
an' his arms throwed out front of him.

"He sets dar fer a minute an' when he riz he had a long knife in his
hand. 'Fore he could be grabbed he done kill two of de Ku Kluxes wid de
knife, an' he done gone out'n de do'. Dey ain't ketch him nother, an'
de nex' night when dey comed back, 'termined ter git him dey shot
ano'her nigger by accident.

"I Imembers [TR: 'members] seein' Joe Turner, another nigger hung at
Hillsboro in '69 but I plumb fergot why it wuz.

"I know one time Miss Hendon inherits a thousand dollars from her
pappy's 'state an' dat night she goes wid her sweetheart ter de gate,
an' on her way back ter de house she gits knocked in de haid wid a axe.
She screams an' her two nigger sarvants, Jim an' Sam runs an' saves her
but she am robbed.

"Den she tells de folkses dat Jim an' Sam am de guilty parties, but her
little sister swears dat dey ain't so dey gits out of it.

"Atter dat dey fin's out dat it am five mens, Atwater, Edwards,
Andrews, Davis an' Markham. De preacher comes down to whar dey am
hangin' ter preach dar funeral an' he stan's dar while lightnin' plays
roun' de dead mens haids an' de win' blows de trees, an he preaches
sich a sermon as I ain't neber hyard before.

"Bob Boylan falls in love wid another oman so he burns his wife an'
four youngins up in dere house.

"De Ku Kluxes gits him, of course, an' dey hangs him high on de old red
oak on de Hillsboro Road. Atter dey hunged him his lawyer says ter us
boys, 'Bury him good, boys, jist as good as you'd bury me if'en I wuz
daid.'

"I shuck han's wid Bob 'fore dey hunged him an' I he'ped ter bury him
too an' we bury him nice an' we all hopes dat he done gone ter glory."
