


"I used to 'member lots but you know, my remembrance got short.

"I was bred and born in Johnston County, North Carolina. I was sold
away from my mother but after freedom I got back. I had a brother was
sold just 'fore I was. My mother had two boys and three girls and my
oldest sister was sold.

"And then you know, in slavery times, when the white children got
grown, their parents give 'em so many darkies. My young Missis drawed
me.

"My fust master was such a drinker. Named Lee. Lawd a mercy, I knowed
his fust name but I can't think now. Young Lee, that was it.

"He sold me, and Leo Andrew Whitley bought me. Don't know how
much--all I know is I was sold.

"After freedom I scrambled back to the old plantation and that's the
way I found my mother.

"My last master never married. He had what they called a northern
trotter.

"Wish I was able to get back to the old country and find some of my
kin folks. If they ain't none of the old head livin', the young folks
is. I got oceans of kin folks in Sampson County.

"My husband was a preacher and he come to the old country from this
here Arkansas. He always said he was going to bring me out to this
country. He was always tellin' me 'bout Little Rock and Hot Springs.
So I was anxious to see this country. So after he died and when they
was emigratin' the folks here, I come. I 'member Dr. Blunson counted
us out after we got off the boat and he said, 'Well, my crowd looks
kinda sickly, but I'm a doctor and I'll save you.' Lawd, they
certainly come a heap of 'em. When the train uncoupled at Memphis,
some went to Texas, some to Mississippi, and some to Louisiana and
Arkansas. People hollerin' 'Goodbye' made you feel right sad.

"Some of 'em stayed in Memphis but I wouldn't stay 'cause dat's the
meanest place in the world.

"John M. Gracie had paid out his money for us and I believe in doin'
what's right. That was a plantation as sure as you bawn."
