


The negro race is peculiarly susceptible to hallucinations. Most any
old negro can recall having had several experiences with "de spirits."
Some of these apparitions were doubtless real, as the citizens during
Reconstruction Days employed various methods in keeping the negro in
subjection. The organizers of the Ku Klux Klan, shortly after the
Civil War, recognized and capitalized on the superstitious nature of
the negro. This weakness in their character doubtless prevented much
bloodshed during this hectic period.

The following is a story as told by a venerable ex-slave in regard to
the "spirits":

"One day, when I wuz a young man, me an' a nigger, by de name ov
Henry, wuz huntin' in an' old field. In dem days bear, deer, turkey,
and squirrels wuz plentiful an' 'twant long befo' we had kilt all we
could carry. As we wuz startin' home some monstrous thing riz up right
smack dab in front ov us, not more'n 100 feet away. I asked Henry:
"Black Boy, does yo' see whut I see?" an' Henry say, "Nigger I hopes
yo' don't see whut I see, 'cause dey ain't no such man." But dere it
stood, wid its sleeves gently flappin' in de wind. Ovah 8 feet tall,
it wuz, an' all dressed in white. I yells at it, "Whut does yo' want?"
but it didn't say nuthin'. I yells some mo' but it jus' stands there,
not movin' a finger. Grabbin' de gun, I takes careful aim an' cracks
down on 'em, but still he don't move. Henry, thinkin' maybe I wuz too
scared to shoot straight, say: "Nigger, gib me dat gun!" I gibs Henry
de gun but it don't take but one shot to convince him dat he ain't
shootin' at any mortal bein'. Throwin' down de gun, Henry say,
"Nigger, lets get away frum dis place," which it sho' didn't take us
long to do."
