

"I was born in Stoddard County, Missouri. My mother belonged to John
Sitzes and my father belonged to Lark Abernathy. I can jes remember how
afraid us chillun was of de soldiers. De boss had a big plantation and
raised everything dey ate and wore. We had a cabin dat joined on to the
house. My mother was jus’ like a man and worked in de fiel’ and made
rails. My aunt wove. I picked up chips. My mother was the type dat they
had to treat good. De master had eight children. There was a white
school of three months. I did not go to school.

"After de war was over we all worked for twenty-five cents a day but
didn’t get paid in money but in food. Mother was sold twice, and my
father was sold away from my mother. I don’t ’member anything ’bout my
father. I was ’bout four years old when de war ended. ’Bout all we did
on Sunday was to dig ginseng and fish. One of de slaves would go out to
a dance and get in in de mornin’ and he would get a whippin’.

"After de war some Ku Klux come through our place and de white folks
said they could tell who dey were by de walk. After de war was over de
soldiers were going to take some of de colored women south, so we hid
under de stairway. De soldiers fought to get de slaves to go and my
mother had a scar on her shoulder dat dey made. De soldiers took some of
de slaves south and sold them somewhar’ and we never heard from them
again.

"Black root was a purgative medicine as well as goose grease. For
whooping-cough dey would use honey and alum.

"At Christmas we’d get candy or a new dress. On one Christmas old
Christine or Santa Clause would wrap up in a blanket and this is how we
got our presents. Down thar de hickory nuts grew big and it was a funny
thing when we found out dat old Christine was giving us our own hickory
nuts.

"I can’t ’member ’bout any hoodoo business but once a Negro man borrowed
a pair of boots from another man and when he returned them thar was a
snake’s tooth sticking up through de sole of one of de boots."
