


"I wus borned in Vance County an' I 'longed ter Mr. Joseph Hargrove, de
same man what owned Emily an' Rufus Hargrove, my mammy an' pappy. He
also owned Joseph an' Cora, my bruder an' sister. My mammy uster 'long
ter 'nother man what lived in Virginia, but Mr. Hargrove buyed her when
she wus sold on de choppin' block at Richmon'. He already had my pappy
so dey got married dar on his plantation.

"Marster ain't neber whup nobody, case he am too much de gentleman, but
de oberseer done nuff fer 'em all.

"Dar wasn't no Sadday evenin's off 'cept fer de wimen what had eight or
ten chilluns an' dey got off ter wash 'em up. In de rush time, dat is,
when de fodder wus burnin' up in de fiel's or de grass wus eatin' up de
cotton dey had ter wuck on Sunday same as on Monday.

"My mammy wus a seamstress, an' I'se knowed her ter wuck all night an'
half de day ter make clothes fer de slaves.

"We ain't had but two meals a day an' dey wus scant. We had a few
frolicks, dances an' sich lak onct in a while an' onct a year we all
went ter a show, sorter lak a circus.

"I 'members dat we sung 'Swing Low Sweet Chariot,' 'De Promised Lan','
'Ole Time Religion,' an' one dat goes:

    "'Dark wus de night an' col' de groun'
    On which my Saviour lay,
    An' sweat lak drops of blood run down
    While ter de God he pray.'

"Dar wus a few mo' but I done fergit.

"Does you know dat I can't 'member much 'bout de slave days? I doan
recoleck when de Yankees comed, mebbe dey ain't come ter our part o' de
country. I 'members when Marse Joseph comed out ter de slave cabins an'
tells us dat we can leave case we am free. I think dat dat wus de las'
of August, case de fodder wus in.

"I still knows a lady an' gentleman do'. A lady or gentleman speaks
nice ter you, case dey wus borned wid a silver spoon in dey mouth, but
de other kin' what talks biggety shows plain dat de spoons which dey am
borned wid am brass."

EH
