


At the age of one hundred and three, Frank Range is a familiar figure on
the streets of Greenville, talking freely of pre-Civil and Civil War
days, and the part he played in the war.

Frank, the oldest of nine children, was born of slave parents, Lenard
and Elizabeth Herbert, on the plantation of Mr. Jim Boler, Newberry,
South Carolina. He was sold several times, and is known by the name of
one of his owners, John Range.

During the Civil War his master, Mr. Jim Herbert, carried him to the war
as a cook, and when necessary, he was pressed into service, throwing up
breast-works; and while he was engaged in this work, at Richmond Va. a
terrific bombardment of their lines was made, and a part of their
breast-works was crushed in, and his master buried beneath it. Frantic
with fear for the safety of his master, Frank began to move the dirt
away; finally he was able to drag him to safety. Though shot and shell
were falling all around him, he came out unscathed.

Frank Range returned to Newberry at the close of the war, after which he
moved to Greenville County in 1901, and into the city in 1935. He is
never happier than when, in the center of a group of willing hearers, he
is reciting in a sing-song tone the different periods of his life.

He attributes his longevity to the fact that he has never tasted
whiskey, never chewed tobacco; never had a fight; toothache and
headache are unknown to him; the service of a physician has never been
needed; he does not know one playing card from another. He can walk five
or more miles with seeming ease; is jovial and humorous.

He receives a state pension of twenty five dollars annually. His place
of residence is 101 Hudson St. Greenville, S.C.


  References;

  Mr. Guy A. Gullick,
  Probate Judge, Greenville County.

  Frank Range (information given concerning himself)
  101 Hudson St. Greenville S.C.
