


"George Rogers is the name. I has carried fur 94 years an' over. I will
be 95 the first day o' this comin' August. Louis Rogers wuz my father.
My mother wuz Penny Rogers. All my brothers an' sisters are dead except
one sister. She is livin' in Buffalo, New York. She is somewhere in
seventy years old. She wuz the baby in our home. My mother an' father
an' all o' us belonged to Felix Rogers. He lived in the edge o' Wake
County next to Greenville County. My mother came from Canada. My master
came here from Canada an' married here. He married old man Billy
Shipp's daughter. Her name wuz Matilda Shipp.

"I cannot read an' write. Dey did not 'low no niggers to handle no
papers in dem days. Master had three plantations an' about one hundred
slaves. We had good houses an' plenty to eat. My master wuz a good man.
We had no church on the plantation, but we had prayermeeting in our
houses. He 'lowed dat an' when dey had big meeting, he made us all go.
We had dances or anything else we wanted to at night. We had corn
shuckings, candy pullings, an' all the whiskey an' brandy we wanted. My
daddy didn't do nuthin' but 'still for him. Whiskey wuz only ten cents
a quart den.

"I have never seen him really whup a slave any more dan he whupped his
own chilluns. He whupped us all together when we stole watermelons and
apples. He made us chillun, white and black, eat together at a big
table to ourselves. We had ordinary clothes, but we all went alike. In
the summer and winter we all went barefooted and in our shirt tails
mos' er de time. His chilluns wuz just as bad fer goin' barefooted as
we niggers wuz.

"We had our patches, and he allowed us to have the money we made on
'em. Our houses were called slave quarters. Our marster's house wuz a
big fine two story-house. We slaves called it 'de great house'. None er
de slaves from Marster Roger's plantation never run away.

"We chillun played de games uv marbles, cat ball, an' we played base,
prison base. At night we all played peep squirrel in the house. We
played blindfold and tag.

"We fished a lot in Briar Creek. We caught a lot o' fish. Sometimes we
used pin hooks we made ourselves. We would trade our fish to missus for
molasses to make candy out uv.

"When we got sick we had a doctor. His name wuz Dr. Hicks. I never wuz
sick, but some uv de res' wuz. We had an old colored man who doctored
on all us chillun. He give us roots an' herbs.

"Yes sir, I have seen slaves sold. My marster died the year the war
started; den dey had a big sale at our house. Dey had a sale, an' old
man Askew bought a whole lot o' our niggers. I don't know his name only
dey called him 'old man Askew'. He lived on Salisbury Street Raleigh,
down near de Rex Hospital, Corner Salisbury and Lenoir Streets. Old man
Askew wuz a slave speculator. He didn't do nothin' but buy up slaves
and sell 'em. He carried de ones he bought at our house to Texas. He
bought my half-sister and carried her to Texas. Atter de surrender I
saw her in Texas once, never no more.

"When de war begin dey carried young marster off. His name wuz William
Rogers, an' dey sent me to wait on 'im. I wuz in camp wid 'im up here
by de old Fair Grounds. Atter we got there I seed old Colonel Farrabow,
he wuz Colonel o' dat regiment. We all lef' Raleigh on wagons, an' I
don't know whur we went atter we lef' Raleigh; I wuz las'. We got on de
train at Fayetteville, whur dey kept de rations. We went to a place
whur dere wuz a lot o' water. I don't know its name. We were dere about
three days when dey had a battle, an' den Colonel Farrabow come round
an' tole me marster wuz gone. He told us to go to the breas'works and
work. I stayed dere three years and eight months. Den dey had anudder
battle dar just befo' I lef', and de Yankees tuc' de place.

"I went to de Yankees den. Dey give me clothes, shoes, sumtin to eat,
and some money too. I worked for 'em while dey were camped in Raleigh.
I come wid' em back to Raleigh. Dey were camped on Newbern Avenue and
Tarboro Street and all out in Gatlin' Field in de place now called
Lincoln Park. De Yankees, when dey tuc' us, tole us ter come on wid'
em. Dey tole us to git all de folks's chickens and hogs. We wuz behind
'em, an' we had plenty. Dey made us steal an' take things fur 'em.
Wheeler's Calvary went before us, dat's why dey wuz so rich. Dey got
all de silver, an' we got de chickens and hogs.

"De Yankees skinned chickens and geese. Dey cut hogs an' cows up an'
den skinned 'em. Dey took jis' part of a cow sometime, jis' de hind
quarters an' lef' de res'. We went to one place, an' de white 'oman
only had one piece o' meat an' a big gang o' little chillun. I begged
de Yankees to let dat piece of meat alone, she wuz so po', but de
officer tole 'em to take it, an' dey took her las' piece o' meat.

"I stayed wid de Yankees two years arter de surrender. Dey carried me
to Florida when I lef' Raleigh. When I lef' 'em in Florida I went ter
Texas to min' cattle. I stayed in Texas seven years. Den Mr. Hardie
Pool from down here at Battle Bridge, Wake County come out dere. When
he started home I couldn't stan' it no longer, an' I jis tole him I wuz
goin' back home to North Carolina. No Sir, when I got home, I would
not go back. No mo mindin' cattle in Texas fur me. I married arter I
come back here. I married Polly Bancomb first, den a 'oman named Betsy
Maynard, and las', Emily Walton.

"When de surrender come marster wuz dead, but he lef' it so dat all his
slaves who had families got a piece o' lan'. Dere were four of 'em who
got lan'. He wuz dead do', but missus done like he had it fixed.

"We had white overseers. Old man John Robinson stayed there till de
surrender; den he lef'. We used to kill squirrels, turkeys, an' game
wid guns. When marster went off some o' us boys stole de guns, an' away
we went to de woods huntin'. Marster would come back drunk. He would
not know, an' he did not care nuther, about we huntin' game. We caught
possums an' coons at night wid dogs. Marsa an' missus wuz good to us.

"I heerd a heap uv talk about Abraham Lincoln, but I don't know nuthin'
bout him. I like Mr. Roosevelt all right. He is all right as fur as I
know of 'im. I digs fish worms fer a livin'; I can't work much. I jist
works awhile in the mornin'. I don't git anything from charity, de
county, ner de State. I don' have much. Dese are de bes' shoes I has.
Dey flinged dem away, an' I picked 'em up. Dey is jist rags uv shoes. I
shore need shoes."

L.E.
