


"Aunt" Nina Scot sat on her front porch. She was drinking some liquid
from a bottle which she said would help her trouble. Being short of
breath, she was not able to talk very much. She said that she was very
small at the time she was set free. "My Marster and his folks did not
treat me like a nigger," she said, "they treated me like they did other
white folks." She said that she and her mother had belonged to Dr.
Shipp, who taught at Wofford College, that they had come here from
Chapel Hill, N.C. and that she was a tarheel negro. She said that white
people in slavery days had two nurses, one for the small children and
one for the older ones. "Yes sir, those were certainly fine people that
lived on the Campus during those days. (Wofford Col. Campus) When the
'raid' came on, people were hiding things all about their places." She
referred to the Yankee soldiers who came to Spartanburg after the close
of the Civil War. "My mother hid the turkeys and told me where she had
hidden them." Dr. Shipp came up to Nina one day and asked her where the
turkeys were hidden. She told him they were hidden behind a clump of
small trees, and pointed them out to him. "Well," he said, "tell your
mother to go and hide them somewhere else and not to tell you about it.
You would tell the Yankees just where those turkeys were hidden." Aunt
Nina recalls that Mr. and Mrs. Dr. Duncan (formerly of Wofford College)
had a habit of getting a slice of bread and butter for all the
neighboring children (black or white) whenever their nurses brought them
to their home.


  SOURCE: "Aunt" Nina Scott, 260 N. Converse St., Spartanburg, S.C.
  Interviewer: F.S. DuPre, Spartanburg Office, Dist. 4
  (May 17, 1937)
