


"Good morning, honey, I ain' much today. How you is? No, I can' talk
nothin bout dem times today. Ain' know no more den I done tell you. I
doin very well considerin I can' get bout like I wants to. Doin very
well, honey. Peoples mighty nice to me, white en black. Cose I don'
venture to get far off de lot, I be so poorly dese days. Ain' been bout
up town dere in a month since Saturday."

"Well, my chillun say for me to go live wid dem, but I don' want to go
down to dat other far end of de town. I tell dem dey worry me so dat I
think I rather be here in dis piece of house. See, I has such good
neighbors bout me here en dere be so much a fightin en gwine on in dat
other end of town. All de peoples speaks well of me, both white en
black, of dem dat knows me. Yes, mam, Miss Ellen tell me fore she die
for me to stay right here in dis house long as I live en ain' nobody is
gwine worry me neither. No, child, Miss Mary Watson don' worry me, not
one speck bout dis house. Miss Mary de only child dat Miss Ellen got
left here. No, honey, I ain' studyin bout gwine nowhe' yet. Cose de
house may fall down on me cause dat dere old kitchen over dere was good
when I come here, but it rot down. Dat how-come I ain' got no stove. De
kitchen rot down en de rain come in on de stove en rust it out. No, dey
don' worry me none. I tell dem I ain' got nothin, but I settin here just
as satisfied like. Cose I may get a little pension soon, but don' know
when it gwine get here. I ain' hear tell of nobody gettin it yet. I
tell lady dat come here if I get it, it be all right en if I don' get
it, dat be all right too."

"Big sale on today, ain' dere, child? I hear talk bout dey gwine sell
all de Witcover property en all dat, but I don' know. Dey sho got a
pretty day for it. I had on my old thick sweater, but it too hot. I had
to pull it off en put on dis here thin jacket. Can' go bout too naked,
honey."

"Yes'um, I know it was you come here de other night. Cose I can' see so
good, but I can hear de people voice en tell who dere time I hear dem
comin up dat path. You see, I don' light my lamp first night nohow, dere
be so much grass round here de mosquitoes comes in en worries me right
smart."

"Miss Foxworth en dem fixin to plant dey turnips over dere. Miss
Foxworth, I likes her very well to speak. She good-hearted, kind en
clever. She comes over en talks wid me often cause us been friends ever
since fore de old man been gone. Dey ain' got no kind of garden yet, but
dey fixin to plant a fall garden out dere."

"No, child, I done put Miss Betty clothes down. Tell her I ain' able to
wash no more en my Lord, Miss Betty sho hate to hear me say dat. Won'
dat Miss Betty clothes was so hard, but it was de totin dem back en
forth en den dere be so little bit of money in dem, didn' pay to hire
nobody to carry dem. Cose she didn' pay me nothin worth much cause she
didn' never have nothin much, but a little changin of underclothes en
bout one dress. Just had to starch bout one petticoat en one dress, but
I can' hardly wash for myself dese days en I wouldn' never venture to do
hers no more. No, honey, my conscience wouldn' allow me to overpower
Miss Betty for dem little bit of somethin en dey ain' dirty neither. You
see, since Miss Emma been stayin dere, she in charge de house en uses
all her tablecloths en such as dat. Miss Emma, she mighty nice to me.
Every time I go up dere en I ain' been doin nothin for her neither, she
see can she find a cup of fresh milk or somethin another to hand me."

"Reckon I gwine be lonesome right bout dis side next week cause all de
colored schools gwine be open up Monday. You see, dere be so many school
chillun en teacher livin on dis here street. Dat child over dere say she
gwine be home right sharp after she be finish pickin cotton next week. I
say I ain' be obliged to leave dis country cause my white folks wouldn'
never venture to come dere to dat other end of town to see me. All dese
chillun bout here mighty good to me. Don' never let me suffer for
nothin. Dey caution me not to risk to cook nothin over dat fireplace
cause dey say I might tumble over en can' catch myself. No, dey tell me
don' do no cookin, I might fall in en burn up. No, child, I ain' chance
to cook none on dat fireplace since I been sick. Different ones brings
me somethin dis day en dat day. Don' suspicion nothin bout it till I see
dem comin. Celeste over dere brings me breakfast en dinner every day en
I don' never bother wid no supper cause I lays down too early. Den dey
keeps me in plenty bread en rolls en I keeps a little syrup on hand en
eats dat if I gets hungry. Dere Marguerite all de time bringin me
somethin, if it ain' nothin but a pitcher of ice. You see, dey makes dey
ice en it ain' costin her nothin. When I see her turn out dat piazza, I
know she comin here. I ain' see her today, but I lookin for her. Used to
wash for dem too. Honey, I done a lot of work bout dis town en I don'
suffer for nothin. All de people bout here be good to me."

"No, mam, I ain' gwine let you take no more pictures. Ain' gwine take no
more. If Miss Montgomery say she comin here to take more pictures, tell
her I ain' gwine take no more. No, child, I ain' studyin bout no
pictures. I don' want no more. I got one big one up dere on de wall dat
show me en my mammy en my son, Sammie, settin in a automobile. Dat my
picture settin up dere wid de white blouse on. I tell dem I look like
somethin den, but I too old en broke up now. My daughter, she want a
picture en she kept on after us till we went up dere to whe' de carnival
was. Carnival man had a automobile dat he take your picture in en we get
in en set down en he snap de picture. I tell dem dey got one now en dat
ought to be sufficient. Dat my mammy settin dere by me. She was sho a
fine lookin woman. Lord, Lord, honey, dem chillun love dem pictures, but
I ain' studyin bout wantin my picture scatter all bout de country."

"Yes, child, I sleeps all right. Go to bed early too fore anybody else
round here do. Yes, mam, I goes to bed early en don' never get up none
till I see day shine in dem cracks. I was figurin somebody else ax me
dat de other day. Believe it was Dr. Dibble. My Sammie, he a mammy
child. He never stop till he send de doctor here to see could he find
out de ailment dat seem like was eatin me way. Dr. Dibble come here en
set down in dat chair en ax me a heap of questions. Den he test my blood
en give me a tonic dat he say would hope me. Yes, mam, dat my Sammie
doctor en he goes to see him often, he does have such a misery in his
head. Dat de first time Dr. Dibble ever been here, but I likes he manner
mighty well. Dr. Zack was a good doctor too. Cose dat what dey tell me,
but I ain' know nothin bout it. No, child, I been healthy all my days en
I ain' had to worry bout no doctor. I tells dem when I falls down, I
won' last long cause I been hearty all my days."

"Your sister still in Dr. Dibble store (office), ain' she? Is she got a
cook yet? Dat it, I glad she got somebody to depend on cause dese young
people, can' tell bout dem. Dey be one place today en den dey apt to be
another place de next day. I used to cook dere to lady house cross de
street, but I never didn' cook no Sunday dinner dere. Dat lady been take
in sewin en she would sew en press right on de big Sunday. I tell her
dat a sin en she say she had to get finish somehow dat de folks was
pushin her for dey clothes. I say, 'Well, dat you, ain' me.' I go dere
on Sunday mornin en cook breakfast en clean up en put wood in de
kitchen. Den I would go to church en left dem to cook what dinner dey
get. Dat de reason I won' cook for none dese white folks dis day en time
cause when dey pays you dat little bit of money, dey wants every bit
your time. I been proud when dat lady move from here cause I was tired
walkin de road back en forth. People come here en beg me to cook for
dem, but I tell dem I gwine stay right here en do my bit of washin.
Gwine get along somehow wid it."

"Bethel, down dere on de other side de jail, de only church I ever been
a member of. We got to fix us church twixt now en next year. It need
fixin bad. You see, it right on de Main street gwine down en does be
right public out to de people. I was fixin to go to church Sunday gone,
but my child never come after me. My son, Sammie, never show up, but he
come Sunday evenin laughin. Say, 'Ma, I know if I come by your house,
you would want to go wid me.' No, I ain' been so I able to go in four
Sundays."

"Child, you ought to had brought your parasol wid you cause you been
settin here so long, you gwine be late gettin whe' you started. Dis here
another hot day we got come here."

"Well, good-day, child. Speak bout how you is find Maggie Black to me
when you pass back long dat street dere."


  _Source_: Mom Jessie Sparrow, ex-slave, 83 years, Marion, S.C.
  Personal interview by Annie Ruth Davis, October, 1937.
