

One of the most interesting characters of all Pemiscot County today is
an old negro called "Aunt" Ann Stokes. She was born a slave "out hyar at
Cottonwood Pint in 1844, a year of high water". Nineteen thirty-six
brings her to her ninety third year; all of which have been spent in
Pemiscot County, except for an occasional visit to relatives. In the
early years of her life she was known as "a good hard workin’ nigger".
Now she takes things more quietly, especially since she has lost her
eyesight and can only hear when you shout very loudly. All day long she
does very little, just "sits and rocks." For a very old woman she is
certainly fine looking. Most old people are usually wrinkled. Aunt Ann
looks to be only in her sixties.

A sort of creepy feeling comes to one in the presence of this old negro.
She always leans close to you as she speaks, lays her hand on your arm,
now and then pointing her finger. Once and awhile she smiles showing her
few remaining teeth in Graiae fashion. She speaks slowly in a high voice
not at all shaky. Every story she tells is glorified and exaggerated.
She is anxious to talk and likes to have visitors. Never does she fail
to mention her first "schoolin’"; she tells, "I learnt my alphabet in de
middle ob a field unnerneath a ’simmon tree. My cousin teached me, you
know we weren’t ’lowed to hab books in dem days. They didn’t want us to
know nothin’". When you mention the War Between the States, you have hit
a favorite subject of hers. Especially, does she pride herself on her
war stories.

At Cottonwood Point she remembers standing on the bank of the river to
"see transpots goin’ south. Done busted through up north here. Fom de
steam ob de boats we was uz wet us if we’z a-standin’ in a shower ob
rain. Sa many soldiers dat dey wuz all standin aroun de pilot houses.
Dey wuz goin’ to Fort Pillar on a hill in Tennessee. Sech a shootin’ as
day was when dey turn dem cannons loose. Ize tol dat fur three mile down
de river you couldn’t tell if it’s blood or water.

"An ol’ soldier tol’ me how dey capture Vicksburg. Dey put a man on a
ol’ skint-up mule an send him to de fort to spy. When he got thar he say
he’s a-runnin’ way fom de Yankees. He’s so pitiful lookin’ an’ so naked
he couldn’t hide his nakedness: so dey took him in. He stay aroun’ de
fort fur three days lookin’ at everthing. He seen how it wuz all fixed.
Den one mornin’ he come up missin’ and dey try to git on de track ob
him. But it warn’t no use ’cause one mornin’ de man who’d been on de ol’
skint-up mule come back wid sum Yanks an’ took de fort."

                                  ————

"You cud allas hyar de Yankees at Kennett or Hornersville wen day’s
aroun’. One day I’ze over to see Melindy and I say: ’Melindy, does you
all hyar sompin? Soun’ like de Yankees, look out de winder and see if
you sees anything.’

"She say, ’I don’ see nothin’. Dey ain’t no Yankees aroun’ hyar.’

"Well, I jest sit thar ’till I caint stan’ it no more. I gets up and
looks out de winder myself. Thar dey come down de road and I knows theys
Yanks ’cause I see de blue ob de coats. Pretty soon dey ride up to de
house. Dey yell out: ’You all got any Gurrillers aroun’ hyar?’

"Me an’ Melindy stan’ in de doah. I say, ’Melindy you go out dar an tell
'em.’

"Melindy start across de yard when de leader yell, ’I don’ want you! De
truf ain’t in your yaller body.’ (Melindy was a mulatto girl) ’Hey! you,
you other girl, come hyar!’

"’Yes suh,’ I say an’ walk out de doah in de yard.

"’Got any Gurrillers aroun’ hyar?’, he yell.

"’No suh!’ sez I, ’Taint non aroun’ hyar.’

"’Know Mr. Douglass?’, he say pointin’ his finger to a house ’cross de
prairie.

"’Yes suh,’ siz I, ’I knows him wen I sees him.’

"’Has he got any Gurrillers thar?’

"’I don’t know, suh.’

"’Wal, thars a collad girl thar ain’t they?’

"’Yes suh, but I don’ go round her no mo. We ain’t speakin’. Reckon I
ain’t been on Mr. Douglasses place foah six month. I don’t know nothin’
'bout it. You all better go see fur youshsevs.’

"He leab den an ride ovah to Douglasses place. I seen Bud come out in de
yard. He call Bud ovah to de fence and talk to him. ’Bout dat time I see
men comin’ out de back ob de house an chargin’ ovah de fence into de
thicket whar warn’t nothin’ but lots ob trees, tare blanket, an
blackberry bushes. Right den and dare dey had a scrummage. De Yanks set
fire to ever’ buildin’ on de place. De blaze wuz a-goin’ up to de
elements! Not a thing did they take out ob de house ceptin’ feather bed
for a wounded Yankee.

"Mr. Douglass, he hear about de shootin’. He tuk to de woods an stay fur
a spell."

                                  ————

"I ain’t had nothin’ scare me so bad as one time I went down to de lot
to feed. A big ol’ black cat run right in font ob me and jump up on de
corn. Dar he sat, sech a big cat, good big twice! Wal, it scairt me so I
started to bleedin’ at de nose. I come back home as fas as I could. The
ol’ Doc he couldn’t stop it, I couldn’t stop it, seem like nobody can
stop it. My blood bled so much it look de color ob sassafras tea. De
second day Emma, she my daughter say, ’De black cat done gone. I cain’t
fin’ it nowhere.’

"Den my nose stop bleedin!’"

                                  ————

"What’s a cure fur Rheumitize you say? They’s jus one cure for dat, I
knows! Ain’t I had it so bad I couln’t raise up to step ovah a fence
ral? Take a raw irish potato and pack it in your pocket. One day I’ze
walkin’ down de street an I meets Mr. Huffman. I say, ’Mr. Huffman,
how’s your Rheumatize?’

"He say, ’Aunt Ann, ’taint no better. I thinks I go down to Hot Springs
fur a spell.’

"’Humph,’ says I, ’Don’ you go way down dar to git well. You don’t hab
to do dat. You git you a raw Irish potato and carry it wid you all de
time. Wen you change yoah pants, change dat potato ober to de clean
pants. Wen de potato git dry clean through, you won’t hev no more
Rheumatize.’

"Nex’ time I see him he say hez fine. Now ain’t dat proof enough dat
potatoes cure Rheumitizm?"

                                  ————

"One mawnin’ I gets up to make a fish in de stobe. It’s fearful cold an
de moon is still a-shinin’. I put on my coat an start to work. While de
stove am heatin’ up I looks out de winder. I see sompin’ queer lookin’
out in de garden, sompin’ standin’ ’bout knee high all bright and shiny.
I wonder what kin’ ob a ghost has got loose now. I takes a broom an
sneaks out de doah. Kinda haf shets may eyes kaze I’ze scairt to death.
Wham! I hits dat ting an scatters it all ovah de place. Warn’t nothin’
but an ol’ cabbage, a po frozen cabbage!"

                                  ————

"Does I know Ol’ Mexico Cole? Yessum, I reckon I do. He us a dawk man, a
tolable dawk man, wid black hair an dawk eyes. He us what you say a
medium built man. Yessah, Ol’ Mexico Cole! He wuz a doctah. I ’member de
night he wuz on his way home wen de storm cum up. De lighten lightened
an de thunder thundered! Sho’ wuz a powful storm! He’z a-ridin’ along on
his hoss wen all ob a sudden a big lim’ done fall off a tree an smash
him flat. Dat’s mighty bad, I tell yo, mighty bad. Yessuh, ol’ Mexico
Cole, I ’members him.

"One time he walk on a tradin’ boat an he see a bottle full ob sompin’
he don’t know what. He picks it up an smell a deep breaf. Dat really
frowed him out fur a spell. Dey had to give ’em a half a bottle ob
melted grease! Yessum, I ’members Ol’ Mexico Cole."

Two of Aunt Ann’s favorite songs are:

    I

    "By’m by don’ you griebe atter me
    (This line repeated four times)

    II

    Wen I’m gone don’ you griebe atter me
      "   "   "    "   "    "      "    "
      "   "   "    "   "    "      "    "
    By’m by don’ you griebe atter me.

    III

    De Lawd has prepared de way an
      has carried my soul away
    (This line repeated three times)
    By’m by don’ you griebe atter me.

    IV

    Wen I’m dead don’ you griebe atter me
    (This line repeated three times)
    By’m by don’ you griebe atter me."

The second song is sung by a "mighty clevah woman" to her lover. The
negro woman is at home rocking her baby, her husband is sitting not far
away. A weird little whistle is heard. The negro woman sings to warn her
lover of danger.

    "Oh, de win’s in de wes’,
    An’ de cuckoo’s in de nes’,
    No lodgin’ hyar foah you,
    By you baby by yoo.

    Oh, de devil’s in de man,
    Cain’t you unnerstan’,
    No lodgin’ hyar foah you,
    By you baby by yoo.

    (Repetition of the first verse.)"
